Restructure execution modes (#2565)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/guides/execution-modes.mdx

The following table summarizes the benefits of each:

| Mode    | Benefits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Batch   | ● The entire batch of jobs is scheduled together and there is no additional queuing time for each.<br></br>● The jobs' classical computation, such as compilation, is run in parallel. Thus, running multiple jobs in a batch is significantly faster than running them serially.<br></br>There is usually minimal delay between jobs, which can help avoid drift.<br></br>● If you partition your workload into multiple jobs and run them in batch mode, you can get results from individual jobs, which makes them more flexible to work with. |

Reviewer: Are the dots trying to recreate a list? We shouldn't do that because it doesn't comply with a) "semantic web" and b) Carbon design. Does it work to do this? 
```suggestion
| Batch   | <ul><li>The entire batch of jobs is scheduled together and there is no additional queuing time for each.</li><li><p>The jobs' classical computation, such as compilation, is run in parallel. Thus, running multiple jobs in a batch is significantly faster than running them serially.</p><p>There is usually minimal delay between jobs, which can help avoid drift.</p></li><li>If you partition your workload into multiple jobs and run them in batch mode, you can get results from individual jobs, which makes them more flexible to work with.</li> |
```

Author: No; the <ul> doesn't work. I have not yet figured out how to add an unordered list to a table.  The paragraphs work though, maybe that's enough.  You can look at the preview to see how it looks.

I found an example online that uses dashes (see the Job row) does that work?   @Eric-Arellano

Author: replaced the table with lists.

<Admonition type="note">
The queuing time does not decrease for the first job submitted within a session or batch. Therefore, sessions and batches do not provide any benefits when running a single job. Additionally, sessions and batches do not work on simulators because simulators do not have a queue.
</Admonition>

## Batch mode

A multi-job manager for efficiently running an experiment that is comprised of bundles of independent jobs. Use batch mode to submit multiple primitive jobs simultaneously.

<Admonition type="note">
    When batching, jobs are not guaranteed to run in the order they are submitted. Also, while your batch jobs will run as closely together as possible, they don't get exclusive access to the backend. Therefore, your batch jobs might run in parallel with other users' jobs if there is enough processing capacity on the QPU. Additionally, QPU calibration jobs could run between the batched jobs.
</Admonition>

> ![This diagram illustrates jobs submitted in a batch.  It shows five jobs, numbered 0 through 4, in a queue. The jobs are a mix of Estimator and Sampler.](/images/guides/batch.avif 'Figure 1: Batch execution')

Author: > the picture in the `Usage` section

Do you think I should split up that picture and put part in the Batch section & part in the Sessions section, then pull it from Usage?

> ![This diagram illustrates jobs submitted in a batch.  It shows five jobs, numbered 0 through 4, in a queue. The jobs are a mix of Estimator and Sampler.](/images/guides/batch.avif 'Figure 1: Batch execution')

Reviewer 2: Yeah that's what I had in mind. I think those pictures would help people understand how session/batch works. And once they understand how the scheduler behaves for each mode, usage is just QPU vs wall clock time.

> ![This diagram illustrates jobs submitted in a batch.  It shows five jobs, numbered 0 through 4, in a queue. The jobs are a mix of Estimator and Sampler.](/images/guides/batch.avif 'Figure 1: Batch execution')

Author: Never mind - sounds like "move" from the comment below.  I'll get that done.

**Maximum execution time (TTL)** - Determines how long (in _quantum time_) a session or batch can run.  This is the smaller of the value set for `max_execution_time` and the QPU-determined job timeout value.  Quantum time is the time spent by the QPU complex to process the workload. This timer starts when the first job in the workload starts being processed and continues running until the value is reached. After this value is reached, the workload is terminated, any jobs that are already running continue running, and any queued jobs that remain in the session or batch are put into a failed state. You can set this value with the `max_time` parameter for [batches](/guides/run-jobs-batch#specify-batch-length) or [sessions](/guides/run-jobs-session#specify-length).

**Interactive timeout (ITTL)** - This value cannot be configured. If no jobs are queued for the active session or batch within that window, the workload is temporarily deactivated. A job submitted to the session or batch reactivates the deactivated workload if the maximum timeout value has not been reached.

> For full details about these values, including how to determine the ITTL value, review the [Maximum execution time guide.](/guides/max-execution-time)

Reviewer 2: I find it a bit confusing that when reading this guide on execution mode, there is a link to the max execution time page, which has a link back to this guide...

Author: > which has a link back to this guide

I didn't find a link to this guide from the Max execution time one.

Reviewer 2: It's the [Specify the batch length.](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/run-jobs-batch#specify-batch-length) (and session length). They don't link back to this specific page but to the execution mode section.

Author: restructured some stuff.

<Admonition>
The time your workload actively runs is probably different from the amount of wall clock time a workload takes.
</Admonition>

## Basic workflow

The basic workflow for batches and sessions is similar:

1. The first job in a batch or session enters the normal queue. Note: for batches, the entire batch of jobs is scheduled together.
2. When the first job starts running, the TTL timer starts (and does not stop or pause until the end is reached).
3. The ITTL timer starts after each job is completed.  If there are no workload jobs ready within the ITTL window, the workload is temporarily deactivated and normal job selection resumes. A job can reactivate the deactivated workload if the batch or session has not reached its TTL value.
   <Admonition type="note">
   The job must go through the normal queue to reactivate the workload.
   </Admonition>
3. If the TTL value is reached, the workload ends and any remaining queued jobs fail. However, any jobs already running will run to completion.

> 

Reviewer 2: After reading this section, I feel the previous one (`How long do workloads run?`) can be merged into this one. This section describes the TTLs better (even with a video!). The only thing missing is what TTL stands for, and the note about cost limit on ibm cloud.

The following video illustrates the session basic workflow, using sessions as an example:

<video title="A user starts a session job and becomes the priority user.  They submit jobs to the QPU while other users wait. After the prioritized user's session finishes, the next person's jobs can begin processing." className="max-w-auto h-auto" controls>
  <source src="/videos/guides/sessions/demo.mp4" type="video/mp4"></source>
</video>

<span id="sessions-versus-batch-usage" />

> ## Choose the right execution mode

Reviewer 2: This page feels a bit too long. Maybe we can move this part to a separate page?

Author: Let's take a look after it rebuilds with all the other changes.  A couple of sections were removed, so maybe that'll make it more reasonable.

The the benefits of each are summarazed below:

- **Batch**
   - The entire batch of jobs is scheduled together and there is no additional queuing time for each.
   - The jobs' classical computation, such as compilation, is run in parallel. Thus, running multiple jobs in a batch is significantly faster than running them serially.
   - There is usually minimal delay between jobs, which can help avoid drift.
   - If you partition your workload into multiple jobs and run them in batch mode, you can get results from individual jobs, which makes them more flexible to work with. For example, if a job's results don't meet your expectations, you can cancel the remaining jobs. Also, if one job fails, you can re-submit it instead of re-running the entire workload.
- **Session**
   - Dedicated and exclusive access to the QPU during the session active window.

>    - Can run multiple experiments simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: You can technically run multiple experiments simultaneously in batch as well, as long as they are not iterative workloads. 

Instead of this line, perhaps we can say "all the benefits you get from batch mode". Multiple people have asked me if parallel compilation only happens in batch and not session, since it's not explicitly listed under session.

The usage reported on the dashboard or by using the API is the time a QPU is locked for your workload. Failed or canceled jobs count toward your usage in certain circumstances - see the [Failed and canceled jobs](#failed-job) section for details.

To find the usage time for your batch or session, in `qiskit-ibm-runtime` 0.30 or later, run `batch.usage()` or `session.usage()`. When using an older version of `qiskit-ibm-runtime` (>= 0.23 and < 0.30), the usage can be still be found in `session.details()["usage_time"]` and `batch.details()["usage_time"]`.

If you call the REST API directly, the usage time is the `elapsed_time` value returned by the `GET /sessions/{id}` endpoint, for both batch and session workloads.

Your usage has different impacts, depending on which channel you're using:

- For Qiskit Runtime on IBM Cloud users, the usage determines how much the job costs.  See [Manage cost](/guides/manage-cost#manage-cost) for details.

> - For IBM Quantum Platform users, this translates to shares. The [fair-share scheduler](/guides/fair-share-scheduler) prioritizes instances with the most shares left. Thus, the higher your usage, the longer your next job stays in the queue.

Reviewer 2: I feel usage is an important topic and having it under Introduction to execution modes is not intuitive. Maybe this can be moved to [Estimate job runtime](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/estimate-job-run-time), especially since it already has a `View the estimated workload (job) usage on IBM Quantum Platform` topic.

* Session mode: The reported usage is the wall-clock time from the when the first job started executing in the session until the session terminates, regardless of the number of jobs that fail or are canceled.

### Examples

#### Run a quantum variational algorithm

Running a quantum variational algorithm typically follows this flow:

1. Prepare the ansatz.
2. Evaluate the cost function on a QPU.
3. Take the result from the previous step and run it through a classical optimizer.
4. Adjust the parameters according to the output of (3), then go back to step (2).

In this case, if you were using job or batch mode, each job generated by step (2) needs to go back through the queue. This drastically increases the experiment length (wall clock time) due to the queuing time. It could also take longer to converge due to device drift.  That is, every iteration is supposed give you a better result, but device drift could make subsequent results worse.

> In addition, if you use [PEA](/guides/error-mitigation-and-suppression-techniques#pea) or [PEC](/guides/error-mitigation-and-suppression-techniques#pec), you can learn the noise model once and apply it to subsequent jobs when running in dedicated session. This usually doesn't work with batch or job mode because the noise model could become stale by the time the next iteration runs.

Reviewer 2: `learn the noise model` should link to https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/noise-learning

<Admonition type="note" title="Notes">
- The queuing time does not decrease for the first job submitted within a session. Therefore, sessions do not provide any benefits when running a single job.
- Sessions do not work on simulators because simulators do not have a queue.
- Session execution mode is not supported in the Open Plan. Jobs will run in job mode instead.
</Admonition>

## Basic workflow

The basic workflow for batches and sessions is similar:

1. The first job in a batch or session enters the normal queue. For batches, the entire batch of jobs is scheduled together.
2. When the first job starts running, the maximum time to live (TTL) timer starts, and does not stop or pause until the end is reached.
3. The interactive TTL timer starts after each job is completed.  If there are no workload jobs ready within the interactive TTL window, the workload is temporarily deactivated and normal job selection resumes. A job can reactivate the deactivated workload if the batch or session has not reached its maximum TTL value.
   <Admonition type="note">
   The job must go through the normal queue to reactivate the workload.
   </Admonition>

> 3. If the maximum TTL value is reached, the workload ends and any remaining queued jobs fail. However, any jobs already running will run to completion.

Author: Actually, I don't think they're cancelled mid-job.  In the Cloud documentation, we say "If you are using sessions or batches, you can also set the session's or batch's max_time parameter (in wall clock time). However, this does not set a "hard" limit on a job's run time, **since any session jobs that are running when the session ends continue to run**."

I'll triple check though.

<Admonition type="note" title="Notes">
- The queuing time does not decrease for the first job submitted within a session. Therefore, sessions do not provide any benefits when running a single job.
- Sessions do not work on simulators because simulators do not have a queue.
- Session execution mode is not supported in the Open Plan. Jobs will run in job mode instead.
</Admonition>

## Basic workflow

The basic workflow for batches and sessions is similar:

1. The first job in a batch or session enters the normal queue. For batches, the entire batch of jobs is scheduled together.
2. When the first job starts running, the maximum time to live (TTL) timer starts, and does not stop or pause until the end is reached.
3. The interactive TTL timer starts after each job is completed.  If there are no workload jobs ready within the interactive TTL window, the workload is temporarily deactivated and normal job selection resumes. A job can reactivate the deactivated workload if the batch or session has not reached its maximum TTL value.
   <Admonition type="note">
   The job must go through the normal queue to reactivate the workload.
   </Admonition>

> 3. If the maximum TTL value is reached, the workload ends and any remaining queued jobs fail. In IBM Quantum Platform, any jobs already running will run to completion.  However, if you are using Qiskit Runtime on IBM Cloud, jobs won't run to completion if doing so would exceed the instance's cost limit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. If the maximum TTL value is reached, the workload ends and any remaining queued jobs fail. In IBM Quantum&trade; Platform, any jobs already running will run to completion.  However, if you are using Qiskit Runtime on IBM Cloud&reg;, jobs won't run to completion if doing so would exceed the instance's cost limit.
```
